in the 1940s nearly half a million lions
roamed African Asia today fewer than
20,000 remain squeezed in on all sides
by growing human populations despite
millions of dollars spent on lion
conservation in recent decades their
numbers are still declining there must
be a bright idea out there somewhere
lions are the number one tourist
attraction to Kenya and tourism is one
of the top revenue earners yet lion
numbers have declined from 15,000 just
ten years ago to fewer than 2,000 today
wherever humans and lion's share
habitats conflict leads to lions being
killed and nowhere is this more apparent
than in Nairobi Kenya is capital is one
of Africa's fastest-growing cities four
million residents and growing at 7% per
year it's the fastest growing city in
the world
Arobin National Park occupies 16 percent
of the city no other capital city in the
world has a park with wild rhinos lions
and other wildlife the park is fenced
along its northern boundary but is open
to the South linking it to a wider
ecosystem and allowing wildlife to make
crucial seasonal migrations and that
means sharing land with people this
poses a unique challenge for the park
and the city residents
wherever while left goes Lions follow
they can even survive in Nairobi's more
affluent suburbs navigating fences in
built-up areas but inevitably they kill
livestock leading to disastrous
consequences in 2007 so many of the
parks Lions were killed by the community
that they were almost wiped out the
pressure is so great now that we could
lose them altogether
we need an affordable solution that
empowers people to deal with the problem
themselves
marsai wealth is measured in cattle from
the age of nine richard was responsible
for managing the family's most valuable
assets by age 11 he had enough of lion
attacks if the lands come from the
forest and then come to eat our kettles
severe but if I see the lion now I feel
that something is something that is
ready to attack me me and the lion we
are enemies enemies big enemies that can
ever be a forgiver forgive each channel
and day one night he had a bright idea
his day baby is it's being tagged by
this one opponent standing and this the
wires that cut it the bar to the barge
is the switcher where you can see the
lights on Oh Richards brainchild is one
of the first practical solutions to the
lion human conflict problem it's saving
cattle lions and money
I knew the Lions are afraid of something
which is moving because when someone
wakes up at night and movie the touch
their legs are afraid of the ledge
because they think it is a possibilities
come since to a 9 I started putting our
home their bulbs so it didn't he ever
experienced any problem of the lens
giving a tumor until now so the
neighboring homes have even borrowed my
dear since now I've put in six homes the
burbs as conservationists in Africa we
really need to recognize and support
local practical ideas that emerge from
young people like Richard we're proud to
have helped Richard to get a scholarship
to one of Kenya's top schools Brook
house international all it took was one
bright idea Richard never dreamed that
he could be someone that saved
meet Richard Terraria
so
so um so Richard who whoever knew you'd
end up a movie star I mean it was that
true that's true it's mine so where
where did you grow up I grew up
educating gala area at the edges open
and I reckon I should work and at some
point you started looking after castle
yourself how old were you in that I
started looking at my father's get old
so when I was nine years old and at
night some nights what happened yeah
what happened some nights went on you
well some nights so we had a very big
problem of Landsat tech notes our
kettles at night and then the ether
kettles and meanwhile you had this other
interest that you were developing what
was that now I'm working today I want to
make our lecture shock the tape and put
to a home for for security you hear that
booby-trapped the home with an electric
shock and to do that you had you had to
learn some electronics right how did you
do that uh I think this knowledge came
from good because no one taught me I
didn't have any books so you just you
just started causing trouble at home
taking things apart and figuring out how
it worked
yeah and then you you had this idea that
you could put this to use to solve the
lion problem how did you do that I knew
that the loans were afraid of something
which is movie hey they like the other
so I I saw there as my mind came up and
then I knew that today the motorcycles
have the indicators so I got the machine
for the indicator and then I use it for
keeping my land safe and they care too
because now I'm saving lands and kettles
haha so so that was the B I didn't get
from the film cuz it you so there was a
motorcycle indicator switch in there and
that's what causes the light to move
from one light to the others they wanted
to make the lights to splash / fog aside
Cirrus market so you got this you got
this scholarship and you've already
started yeah when I invented this thing
and the
the headteacher of glucose was very
excited for my invention so he gave me
the scholarship to because it's a best
school one of the best schools in the
world
so you started a like two two weeks ago
and what are you gonna do with all this
education and knowledge what's your
dream I'll be because now I'm in Abood
school I won't be an aircraft engineer
so this is a - you grew up in the fields
looking after cattle under the flight
path seeing all these planes go by and
little sparks were going off in your
mind and those sparks now mean that you
can realize your dream of those helping
build the airplanes of the future how
amazing is that
that's amazing Hey amazing because when
I was at home I used to see the planes
coming to do good and land so I just
feel that one day I'll be me Richard
sorry you are amazing thank you